## Building Ardour on macOS

### Stop!

_Do you really need to do this? We provide ready-to-run_
_packages of Ardour. Unless you are a developer with_
_experience compiling and building applications from source,_
_this document is not for you. Please go back to the_
_[download page](https://ardour.org/download)_

### Why Is This So Hard?

Apple provides a very nice development environment for people
who want to build applications that run only on OS
X. Unfortunately if you want to write applications like Ardour
that run on other platforms as well, Apple doesn't make things
easy. Many components are missing, or the wrong version, and
OS X does not come with a package management system to allow
upgrades.


We have found that attempting to use various 3rd party "package
managers" for OS X such as MacPorts, Homebrew or Fink, which make most
open source packages easily installable, is not a viable basis
for constructing a build environment for Ardour.


### Overview

Conceptually, building Ardour is relatively simple, and
consists of a few steps:


- Download and build all the libraries and tools needed
directly by Ardour
- Build Ardour as a normal executable
- Package it as an application bundle

### Before You Start

1. make sure you have the developer tools (XCode) installed
2. make sure you have the command line developer tools (XCode)
    installed. Check this by running
    `gcc --version`. If it runs successfully, then
    XCode is correctly installed
3. You will need git installed
4. You will need Python version 2.6 or later installed
5. You may choose to have a suitably new version of [JACK](http://jackaudio.org/)
    installed. For JackOSX, version 0.89 or newer. For JACK1,
    0.121 or newer. JACK is not required, but if you build
    Ardour without it, your build will not be able to use JACK
    directly.


## Getting Required Libraries and Tools

Ardour uses a **lot** of software libraries to
provide functionality needed by the program. Before you can
build Ardour, you will need to make sure that your system
has all of [the current\\
dependencies installed](https://ardour.org/current_dependencies.html). On OS X, you will need to do
this from the source code of each dependency. Ardour
developers in general do not provide assistance with this
task, so please don't ask us for help.


The amount of work
associated with building and maintaining all these
dependencies for OS X is a major reason why we released a
binary ("ready to run") version of Ardour for the platform.


## Building Ardour

From here on, we will refer to the directory where your Ardour
source code is located as `$AD`. It does not matter
where it is located on your system. Typically it will be a
location such as `~/ardour` or maybe `/usr/local/src/ardour`

#### If building from git, checkout Ardour

```
cd $AD
git clone git://git.ardour.org/ardour/ardour.git
cd $AD/ardour

```

#### OR If building from a source tarball, unpack it

```
cd $AD
tar xf /where/you/put/the/source/tarball
cd ardour-<VERSION>

```

Now, the build

```
./waf configure
./waf

```

You **do not need to install** in order to use
your new build of Ardour. You can run it from within the build tree:


```
cd gtk2_ardour
./ardev

```

### Creating An Application Bundle

Applications on OS X take the form of "bundles", which are nothing
more than a directory tree which contain everything the app needs to
run.


```
cd tools/osx_packaging
./osx_build --public

```

You now have a functioning .app bundle.